1.What is premature optimization?
When you try to optimize before it actually works. 

2.What is ORM?
Object relation mapping.

3.What is a factory pattern?
Keep all the logic hidden from the client 

4.

5. What are the four pillars of OOP?
Abstraction: only using what is relevant 
Encapsulation:to keep everything contained in class
Data abstraction:
Inheritance :

6. What is a nullable type?
A property or variable that can be null 

7.What is the difference between stack and queue?When would you use one versus another?
 A stack is a way of storing data where you can only take the top most piece.
    A Queue is a way of storing data where you take things out in the order they were              entered.

8.What is the difference between an interface and abstract class. When would you use one vs another?
A class can only use one abstract class.but a class can use multiple interfaces .
 An interface is set up to interact with other parts of your program. An abstract class is used as framework for other classes.

9.exsplain the difference between public private and protected?
Public is accessible globally.
Private is only accessible through a get and set. 
Protected is accessible by itself and its children. 

10.what is the difference between a left and right join SQL?
A left join will discard all data on the right that does not have a mating pair on the left.
A right join will discard all data on left that does not have a pair on the right.

11.What is the difference between a key and index in SQL?
A key is used to indetfy pieces of information it makes the headers in a data table. And index is the structure that holds the data stored inside the table. 

12. Put the following runtime complexities in order.
 (n log n), O(2n), O(n2),O(n!)

13. What is SQL stored procedure.
Its SQL equivalent of a method its stored logic that can be called in a query.

14.What is a web api?Why would you use one? 
A web api is a system you can make calls to to receive specific pieces of data from services they provide you. You would use one to get access to info you don't have. 

15.what is a race condition?
When a program attemps to run two things at once. 

16.What is the difference between a thread and a process?

17.What is agile?

18.in java what is a callback?
It sends out a request to see if something was completed successfully.

19.in java script describe array.filter()
Allows you to fill an array with all objects that pass a filter.

20. What is css.
Cascading style sheets a way to design frontend.

21.What is the difference between a dictionary and  binary search trees.
Dictionaries store sets of Key and data pairs so you can access certain pieces if you have a key.
Binary search tree you store a right and left node and depening on wether its value is higher or lower it will go right or left 



